# kickstarter-analysis
Performing analysis on Kickstarter data to uncover trends
# Data Analysis Of Kickstarter Plays
Hi Louise, I hope that you are doing well!  I have analyzed plenty of data over the course of the past week pertaining to different Kickstarter campaigns & have some interesting findings that I think you may enjoy learning about.  I was able to sort through some raw data and draw comparisons as to how different play’s campaigns compared to your campaign for your amazing play *Fever*.  I analyzed this data to determine which months were the most successful for the release of the plays, as well as which campaigns were successful or failed based on the range of their goals monetarily.  

## Analysis and Challenges
### General: Theater
To begin, I filtered data from Kickstarter campaigns to show me projects that fell under the **theater** category.  From there I created a pivot chart do determine how each month’s total projects did based on success, failed and canceled.  As you can see in my excel sheet titled *Theater Outcomes by Launch Date* (refer to file Kickstarter_Challenge.xlsx ) the best months for releases were May and June as each month had 111 & 100 successful releases, respectively and only 52 & 49 failed releases, respectively.  The worst months were from October through December with each month having almost an equal amount of successful and failed launches.  To see a better visual than just numbers you can refer to the line graph using this data Theater_Outcomes_vs_Launch.png . 

### Subcategory: Plays
To get even more inclusive & comparable to your launch, I shrunk the data even further to isolate campaigns that fell into the **plays** subcategory.  With this data, I broke the campaigns down to successful, failed and canceled based on their Kickstarter goals.  You can look at the number by referring to Kickstarter_Challenge.xlsx and looking at the sheet titled *Outcomes Based on Goals*.  I then took those numbers and turned them into percentages from the total number of campaigns also based on their Kickstarter goals.  Just like I did with the last set of data, I created another line graph for a better visual Outcomes_vs_Goals.png .  Based on this data, the smaller the goal the easier it is to achieve a successful outcome.  Not many campaigns had a goal higher than $25,000 and there was a higher percent of failure of those that did. 

## Results/Conclusion
Based on all the analysis I did to this data I have come up to a few conclusions.  My first conclusion is that late Spring to the end of Summer is the best time to have a successful launch of a theater Kickstarter with May and June holding the most successful launches.  The least successful time to launch is right around the holidays, which makes sense because most people are busy making plans with family and friends so they don’t always have extra money to back campaigns.  Even though there are down months, it isn’t impossible to have a successful launch in any month, as the data shows no month has more fails than successes.  
As it comes to plays more specifically, the data concludes that you have a much higher chance of a successful launch if you keep your Kickstarter goal lower than $25,000.  That isn’t to say can’t succeed if you have a higher goal, but not many campaigns attempted to set their goal that high (only 38 campaigns out of 1,043 total set their goal over $25,000).  
There is some limitation to the data set, as there is only 1,043 plays and a total of 1,369 campaigns in the *theater* category itself.  You can compare data from *plays* with the other subcategories like *spaces* or *musical* to see how campaign goals affect those as well.  Another way to more thoroughly filter the data is to see if duration of campaign affects the success and failure of these campaigns.  I hope my findings give you some insight on Kickstarter campaigns and if you decide to launch another that you will refer to my data and that it will be of great use!
